The Joe Rogan experience.
There's gotta be fitness in my jeans somewhere men,
because my mom's dad was a boxer,
like growing up, like a, like a guy and he had a record,
he was a kid Dixie Schultz. Um, growing up, like in my grandmother's house,
there was a picture of a guy like, wow, in that position with trunks,
but old timey, like, and, um, I was like, who's that? And she's like,
that's grandpa. And he didn't look like grandpa, so I never associated,
but he apparently he was a boxer.
One thing to not even box somebody, but have someone to hit hold pads for you.
And you'll learn how to punch and hit pads. Cause it's exciting. It's fun to do.
It's like an interesting thing to do.
And you hit things like Batman, that's how you sell it.
That man hit pads and he hits, you know,
injustice and crying and like that. Um,
my boxer grandfather, I want to see if w if you agree with this thing. Okay.
So you're the, you've been the man in the ring, so to speak. Um,
you've been at the epicenter of attention of 1,005 thousand bunch of people as a
man on stage. Um, even the man in the ring,
sometimes when you're doing a UFC event and stuff like that, um,
you know what it's like the, the surge, the, the energy, uh,
that comes from like I'm here and everybody's got, I got their attention.
I command the room. It's part of why we do what we do.
My grandfather having been a boxer must've felt that, right? Like,
probably way more than I've feel when I walk up on stage or we're on the reboot
roadshow tour. I'm like, well, I feel clever sitting in the back,
watching the movie with the audience and hear him laugh.
This is a guy who is like, I'm the man in the ring. And like,
it's all up to me and my fists and I could be a God or a goat
tonight. And like,
and then it becomes primal and there's pounding and like that.
You would imagine there's a,
if you got in the ring and he pursued it enough to have a record,
there must've been some sort of call, some sort of satisfaction to it all.
Maybe, um, it it's, sometimes people do it for money. Right?
Ma maybe it's been a way to make a living. No.
This guy, I don't know. He ma I mean.
He don't think he.
Did it. I think he was hoping for purses,
but I don't think it was just like this or mailman or they'll,
although that's what the story is kind of going, not mailman,
but this was a guy who boxed professionally.
And the story was that my grandmother,
like when they had their first kid, my aunt, Virginia, my grandmother was like,
you can't be a boxer anymore. And so he was like, all right.
And then he stopped being a boxer.
And then my grandfather became a custodian in the Newark
courthouse.
And every day he would like get dressed up in a suit and take the bus to the
north courthouse. They lived in a different section or,
and then he'd put on his custodian outfit and like clean the toilets,
sweep the floors and stuff like that. Noble salt of the earth.
So my whole life, I never questioned this. You know, your wife says, you,
you quit and you quit and stuff like that until I became
older and I became something of the man in the ring myself,
I know what it's like to stand at attention for everybody where
everybody, you were the focus of thousands,
where you get a level of affection from a,
from an of one vociferous mass that you is unparalleled
from any amount of affection.
You give many other single human being in this world. It is,
I've never done heroin, but I imagine it's better than heroin.
It's one of the greatest drugs. It fuels us. And you know, we obviously like it.
We keep doing it. We make money off it. Yes.
But there's many ways to make money.
And we like it and we do it because there's power to it. And it feels fantastic.
And you feel like, man, they liked me. They really liked me.
And then I started thinking, why would he have put that all to the side?
Like, how do you step outside all that? Just because your wife is like,
I don't want you to do that anymore.
And then it made me reconsider my grandparents and I
figured out, and I want to see if you back me on this play,
you don't know these cats. So you got no skin in the game.
So you can't offend anybody.
Doesn't that sound like she did dirty that nobody else did you mean?
Yes, son, where else, but the bed.
You didn't have that thought at all? No.
My thought is that he recognized that it's very dangerous and he probably knew
people who died. And, uh, he probably wanted to find a way out of it. Anyway,
which most fighters do most fighters. At some point in time,
they realize I'm going to have to jump off this ride. One day,
I can't stay on this ride and tell them a dead man,
tell them 90 years old or a hundred years old. It's not feasible.
It's it doesn't exist. There's no 98 year old boxers out there. He.
Faced his own mortality. Every boxer.
Does every fighter does you, you, you hit someone when you see them get hurt.
Well then he's probably been hurt. You see people get hurt.
You see people get pummeled. You see people get knocked out.
Maybe you've been knocked out yourself.
And you realize that this is something that is unsustainable.
And if he's not making any money at it, it's extremely dangerous. And you start,
you know,
you start thinking what could happen to you when you know what can happen to
you. It happens to people. You see it happen. If it hasn't happened to you,
you watch it happen to other people. If you're around combat sports enough,
you're going to see people get up. And when you see people get up,
you realize like, Hey, this is voluntary. There's other ways to make a living.
I don't have to do this anymore. And I can get off this ride.
Or you're the type of person that doesn't give a. And you want to be a champion.
And your, your thought is you are here for glory.
You are here for a legacy. You're here to leave your mark.
You want to go down in history as a great, and if you don't feel that way,
I tell people to get out.
I think fighting is one of the most singular pursuits a
person can get into.
Giving. You're not only giving like the I'm dedicating myself to something.
You're giving your body something that like you're taught your entire life,
protect this.
So the consequences are so grave, the consequences,
zigging and zagging. You, you go the wrong way. You run into a knee wrong way.
You run into a head kick, wrong way. You run into a punch. You know, you,
you duck into an uppercut, your lights, go out. You're laying on your back.
They're going to flashlight in your face and ice on the back of your neck.
And you, you don't even know what day it is. You don't know what,
and then that you never get back and you can only get so many of those your
life. You know, there's, it depends on the person,
but you get knocked out 3, 4, 5 times, whatever the number is.
There's a certain number that your life is going to be different now,
because now your brain doesn't work good anymore. That's a fact,
and maybe it'll get a little bit better over time.
Maybe you can go through some cognitive therapy.
There's some different things they're doing with magnets and different things
they're doing with stem cells, where they're shooting them straight into your,
a cerebral spinal fluid.
And they think that that might have some sort of a positive impact on CTE.
But man, that the reality is combat sports are a brutal,
brutal business. And um.
Well, he just got to a place where he was like, probably smart. Like,
this is my perfect excuse to not.
Money doing it either. It sounds like.
I got to tell you. He gave me, he gave him his dignity back. I honestly,
it was like, he gave it all up because she gave up the.
She was like a dirty German girl who was just like,
I will let you do the animal. You've got to get out of the ring.
And he was like, she's like, I'll give you one ring for the other.
And he was like, Gussie. He called her gussy. I think he imagined like.
Love and family.
I knew these.
Love kids. It's got a kid, right?
He, they had, they had a few.
Kid, man.
Everybody loves their kids and you want to be around to see those kids grow up
and you don't want to be brain dead. And everybody, look,
I personally know a lot of people that have combat
sports induced brain damage. There's no doubt about it. No, if ands or buts.
Yeah. This is why. When I see anybody, who's like half in half out,
I go hard in the paint. I tell them, Hey, you gotta get the out of this.
Now you got to trust me. And, and you know,
and I've done it to the point where people think I'm mean. And I'm like, look,
I'm not mean about very many things in this life.
But when it comes to people who are delusional about their abilities in combat
sports or their future in combat sports,
I get mean because I think you gotta know.
You gotta know with no uncertain terms. I,
I can't be protective of your feelings.
I have to go in hard because no one else is going to people. Don't they, they.
You coaches. You trainers. You. They tell you got a chance, promoters,
willing to put you on fights. When you really should retire.
It is a dirty aspect of the business. And I don't, I don't play that.
If I think that someone should get out, I go hard and I,
I tell them and you know, I've done it to friends. I've done it to, you know,
guys that I've done commentary for.
They've asked me and they pulled me aside and I said, you got to get out, man.
He got to get out because you could talk right now. You're okay right now.
But how many more shots can you take?
How many more times can you get knocked out? One Kao can change your whole life.
Meldrick Taylor got knocked out by Julio, Cesar Chavez.
And your tail was an Olympic gold medalist.
A fantastic boxer was fast as lightening, fast combinations,
beautiful skill. But Julio,
Cesar Chavez just kept wearing on him and wearing on him and boom.
He dropped them in the final round and they stopped the fight with like second
school in the five. Richard Steele stopped the fight.
It was a big controversy like, oh my God, how could he stop the fight?
Meldrick was ahead on the scorecards. And you know,
there was only a couple seconds to go and Meldrick would have won a decision.
It was the right call because he was done after that fight, man,
after that fight, he was never the same. You hear him talk today?
It's the saddest in the world. He can barely put together a sentence.
And he had a few fights after that against Terry Norris,
who was a brutal knockout puncher, and a couple other guys.
He just was never the same. Again. It was at one fight, one fight,
one beating too much. And it was just, it all fell apart on them.
And that can happen. That can happen to any fighter. And when you're done,
you're done. And you, you, you,
the only way you should ever compete as a fighter is if it is,
this is your calling, this is the thing that you're obsessed with.
It is your 100% focus. And as soon as it's not,
as soon as you have doubts,
get out because there's a bunch of people out there that don't have doubts.
And I always try to tell people,
I think about Mike Tyson before he won the title.
Think about the Mike Tyson that destroyed Marvis Frazier. Think about that.
That guy's all in.
You don't ever want to face a guy who's all in when you're half in it.
And a lot of people are half-assed in it and they don't even realize they're
half-ass in it. They just have this thing in their head. Well,
I'm training pretty hard. I'm doing good. I got good skills.
I could beat this guy.
But when someone's in there in and co it's,
combat sports are uniquely dangerous in terms of the consequences
of you not being committed. So you gotta know when to get out and no one does.
Very few people does like a few guys, Andre ward, retired, undefeated,
Olympic gold medalist, two division world champion.
He's the rarest of the rare most guys. They keep going until they get up.
They keep going cool. They get knocked out. They get brutalized.
And then you meet them afterwards and they could barely talk, man.
They could barely talk.
I've seen so many guys that could barely string words together.
Everything's a mumble, all the words slur into the next word. It's horrible,
man. And I saw it in the gym.
I saw in the gym with guys who never made it. They still got brain damage.
The, the, the, the gods of combat sports. They don't give a.
If you win a title, if you're eating shots, you take punches to the head,
kicks to the head. You're getting up, man, no matter what seems.
Like, wow, how come they didn't talk about that for years and years.
They didn't know. They did know that people get punched drunk,
but they didn't know what was causing it. It's not even knockouts. It's,
it's sub-concussive trauma. That does the vast majority of.
The world of hockey.
As well. Yes, sub-concussive trauma is terrible,
but knockouts are also horrific. And then for me,
my discussions with guys like Dr. Mark Gordon,
who's an expert in traumatic brain injuries.
And he works with a lot of soldiers and he runs his TBI foundation to
deal with injuries that soldiers and football players and fighters face,
and his descriptions of it will scare the out of you. I mean, it's like,
he's like people can get brain damage from jet skiing.
Just why am I all that bouncing up and down?
Can you get a jet ski accident? Just like just jet.
Skiing. And if you jet ski accidents exacerbated,
but he's talking about like people, some people get an accident, uh,
some sort of, uh, uh, something happens to you.
We get knocked out and they are never the same. Again, this is a real thing.
You can get a shot to the head, a golf ball. So many misses.
They crack you in the head with a golf ball, right?
You get hit with a line drive. That kind of changes people forever,
forever. So your grandfather probably wanted out.
Um, first of all, write some thoughts. Uh, number one, uh,
is sober. Sober October gives you a different Joe Rogan. Yeah. Oh my God.
You're so dialed in. It's beautiful. Um, I see you're the Ken burns of, of, uh,
combat sports. I can listen to you spin yarns, telltales. Um,
you know what, that's unfair. The Ken burns. I call you the Jean Shepherd.
Of, I don't know who that is, but I hope he's awesome. You.
Love gene Chevy. Remember Christmas story.
He is the guy that narrates Christmas. He wrote the books,
the essays that it's all based on. Um, my other thoughts, um,
that is far more dignity than, than I ever afforded my grandfather.
I appreciate it. My mom is gonna appreciate that. Um,
and then fourth. I lost my point. I thought I hit enough of them.